Seccomp GA (#1747)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-node/20190717-seccomp-ga.md

type SeccompProfile struct {
    // +unionDescriminator
    Type SeccompProfileType
    // Use a predefined profile defined by the runtime.
    // Most runtimes only support "default"
    // +optional

>     RuntimeProfile *string

Author: Thank you for the insight, I will amend accordingly - using the first option.

>     // between alphanumeric characters.

Reviewer: the annotation validation also disallows `..` path segments, and does not allow starting with a `/`

>     // between alphanumeric characters.

Reviewer: how was the 100 character limit selected?

>     // between alphanumeric characters.

Author: The character limit selected was mostly to decrease the likelihood of going over the max file path in some systems. After reviewing this point, I realised that the limitation on most FSs is around file name length, which would fit the current rules.

I will revert this, to keep the existing validation and simply formalise it on the documentation.

type SeccompProfile struct {
    // +unionDescriminator
    Type SeccompProfileType
    // Load a profile defined in static file on the node.
    // The profile must be preconfigured on the node to work.
    // LocalhostProfile must be 253 characters or less, and cannot be an 

>     // absolute nor a descending path.

Reviewer: this length limit is still more restrictive than the current annotation validation... need to describe what happens when an annotation that cannot be copied into a field is encountered during a pod create request

Author: I removed the length limit. I could not find anywhere max length for annotations but managed to create pods with values north of 5000 chars, so I am assuming there is no hard limit.

profiles). The seccomp options struct leaves room for future extensions, such as defining the
behavior when a profile cannot be set.

##### LocalhostProfile

> This KEP proposes we GA LocalhostProfile as the only source of user-defined profiles at this point. 

Author: @tallclair I have now added some information about the update semantics. To improve the current state I am suggesting we monitor for file changes and annotate the affected pods accordingly. PTAL

Users can build their own solutions to keep profiles in sync across nodes (e.g. 
[using daemonsets](https://gardener.cloud/050-tutorials/content/howto/secure-seccomp/)). Or use 
community driven projects (e.g. [seccomp config](https://github.com/UKHomeOffice/seccomp-config), 
[openshift's machine config operator](https://github.com/openshift/machine-config-operator), 
[seccomp operator](https://github.com/saschagrunert/seccomp-operator)) that focuses on solving similar 
problems.

Promoting LocalhostProfile to GA signals to the community that this is a feature they can use and rely on, 
until a better option materializes. If and when that happens, a new KEP will be created accordingly.

##### RuntimeProfile

We propose maintaining the support to a single runtime profile, which will be defined by using the 
SeccompProfileRuntime SeccompProfileType. The reasons being:

- No changes to the current behavior. Users are currently not allowed to specify other runtime profiles.
The existing API server rejects runtime profile names that are different than `runtime/default`.  
The only exception being `docker/default` - for backwards compatibility. 

> - Most runtimes only support a single profile, although the CRI is flexible enough to support others. 

Author: Thank you for the suggestion, @saschagrunert. What I wrote was a bit dubious, I rephrased it to this: _Most runtimes only support the default profile, although the CRI is flexible enough to allow the kubelet to send other profile names._

This KEP proposes we GA LocalhostProfile as the only source of user-defined profiles at this point. 
User-defined profiles are essential for users to realize the full benefits out of seccomp, allowing 
them to decrease their attack surface based on their own workloads. 

###### Updating seccomp profiles
Seccomp profiles are applied at container creation time. Therefore, updating the file contents of a 
profile on disk after that point will not cause any changes to the running containers that are using 
it. Note that amending such files is not recommended and may cause containers to fail on next restart, 
in the case of the new profile being more restrictive, invalid or the file no longer being present 
on disk.

Currently, users have no way to tell whether their physical profiles have been deleted or modified.
This KEP proposes no changes to the existing functionality.

The recommended approach for rolling out changes to seccomp profiles is to always create _new profiles_ 
instead of updating existing ones. Create a deploy new version of the existing Pod Template, changing the
profile name to the newly created profile. Redeploy, once working delete the former Pod Template. This 

> will avoid disruption on in-flight workloads.

Author: I have added it after the existing paragraph. PTAL

profiles). The seccomp options struct leaves room for future extensions, such as defining the
behavior when a profile cannot be set.

##### LocalhostProfile

This KEP proposes we GA LocalhostProfile as the only source of user-defined profiles at this point. 
User-defined profiles are essential for users to realize the full benefits out of seccomp, allowing 
them to decrease their attack surface based on their own workloads. 

###### Updating seccomp profiles
Seccomp profiles are applied at container creation time. Therefore, updating the file contents of a 
profile on disk after that point will not cause any changes to the running containers that are using 
it, but will apply the updated profile on container restart. Note that amending such files is not 
recommended and may cause containers to fail on next restart, in the case of the new profile being more 

> restrictive, invalid or the file no longer being present on disk.

Author: That is correct, there are not known issues that would make a container to malfunction once it is restarted with a "well-suited" seccomp profile. For example, if the change is more permissive than the current state, that would always be fine.

Currently, users have no way to tell whether their physical profiles have been deleted or modified.
This KEP proposes no changes to the existing functionality.

The recommended approach for rolling out changes to seccomp profiles is to always create _new profiles_ 
instead of updating existing ones. Create and deploy a new version of the existing Pod Template, changing the
profile name to the newly created profile. Redeploy, once working delete the former Pod Template. This 
will avoid disruption on in-flight workloads.

The current behavior around updating profiles while they are being used, is not adequate for a built-in 
security feature such as seccomp. However, given its current "pseudo-GA" state, we don't want to change it 
with this KEP. We will explore improvements to the behavior through the seccomp-operator and/or a new 

> feature-gated improvement.

Author: I will rephrase it as it is not exactly what I meant. For me the existing issues are:

- LocalhostProfile files are not sync'ed across nodes.
- The operation/maintenance of localhost profiles is not ideal, as a cluster admin may not have an easy way to identify what pods have been restarted since the last profile change. 

We are aiming to initially solve both problems out of tree with the seccomp-operator.

###### Profile files managed by the users 
The current support relies on profiles being saved as files in all cluster nodes where the pods using 

> them may be scheduled. It is also the user's responsibility to ensure the files are correctly saved and 

Reviewer: "user" here is overloaded ... clarify it is the responsibility of someone with node administrator permissions to do this...

Author: Change made accordingly.

synchronised across the all nodes. 

Users can build their own solutions to keep profiles in sync across nodes (e.g. 
[using daemonsets](https://gardener.cloud/050-tutorials/content/howto/secure-seccomp/)). Or use 
community driven projects (e.g. [seccomp config](https://github.com/UKHomeOffice/seccomp-config), 
[openshift's machine config operator](https://github.com/openshift/machine-config-operator), 
[seccomp operator](https://github.com/saschagrunert/seccomp-operator)) that focuses on solving similar 
problems.

Promoting LocalhostProfile to GA signals to the community that this is a feature they can use and rely on, 

> until a better option materializes. If and when that happens, a new KEP will be created accordingly.

Reviewer: Forward-looking statements like this aren't particularly helpful. If solving seccomp profile installation is explicitly a non-goal, put that in the non-goals section, but don't promise future enhancements here.

Reviewer 2: since we are trying to do a kep per feature, any enhancement post GA is new feature and new kep, so agree that we dont need to promise future enhancements.

##### RuntimeProfile

We propose maintaining the support to a single runtime profile, which will be defined by using the 
SeccompProfileRuntime SeccompProfileType. The reasons being:

- No changes to the current behavior. Users are currently not allowed to specify other runtime profiles.
The existing API server rejects runtime profile names that are different than `runtime/default`.  
The only exception being `docker/default` - for backwards compatibility. 
- Most runtimes only support the default profile, although the CRI is flexible enough to allow the kubelet 
to send other profile names. 
- Dockershim does not currently provide a way to pass other runtime profile names.
- Multiple runtime profiles has never been requested as a feature.

If built-in support for multiple runtime profiles is needed in the future, a new KEP will be created to 
cover its details. The implementation could be backwards compatible by creating a new `RuntimeProfile` field

> and setting its value to "default" whilst observing its immutability. 

Reviewer: See the statement above... this would be forwards compatible (old seccomp stanzas would continue to mean the same thing), but not backwards compatible (runtime profiles other than "default" would get treated as runtime/default by old servers).

> #### PodSecurityPolicy API

Reviewer: @tallclair - I didn't expect PSP changes for this, given the trajectory of the PSP type.

Reviewer 3: Since the PSP is not (yet) deprecated, I think it's important that it keeps up with the current API.

Reviewer: would PSPs with existing seccomp defaultProfileName/allowedProfileNames annotations be effective at safeguarding the fields on pods (I would expect so)? if so, what is the benefit of adding complexity of parallel fields to PSPs if their current API expression covers the function we need?

Author: If we apply the PSP annotations to the new pod fields it should be just as effective.
But the lack of asymmetry may not give end users confidence on PSP/seccomp integration.
That said, I would probably suggest we update the PSP API until we find a substitute for it.

profiles). The seccomp options struct leaves room for future extensions, such as defining the
behavior when a profile cannot be set.

##### LocalhostProfile

This KEP proposes we GA LocalhostProfile as the only source of user-defined profiles at this point. 
User-defined profiles are essential for users to realize the full benefits out of seccomp, allowing 
them to decrease their attack surface based on their own workloads. 

> ###### Updating seccomp profiles

Reviewer 3: This doesn't feel like it's addressing the problem sufficiently to be called GA, but also implementing something more complex seems outside the scope for this KEP. This is a bit of chicken-and-egg situation, so maybe it's sufficient to just document the current behavior, and follow up with a separate feature (staged rollout) of a more complex solution.

For a proper solution, I was thinking of something along the lines of:

1. Add a field to the container status with seccomp profile hash (maybe SHA256)
2. When the container (or pod?) is first started, grab the hash of the current profile(s) file(s), and copy the profile file somewhere else, indexed by hash (unless it already exists). Also, verify the hash after copy to avoid TOCTOU bugs
3. When (re)starting a container with a seccomp profile hash already set, use the copied file indexed by the hash rather than the file defined by the spec.
4. Use reference counting to clean up copied files for old versions.

Then again, maybe it's better to just address this at the control-plane level in the seccomp operator to prevent this situation in the first place.

Author: I concur with that assessment and have removed the proposed changes in behaviour.

I also agree that the seccomp operator will be a good place to evolve and experiment in this area. Certainly using some of those ideas. :+1:

## Design Details

### Failure and Fallback Strategy

There are different scenarios in which applying seccomp may fail, below are the ones we mapped 
and their outcome once this KEP is implemented:

| Scenario | API Server Result | Kubelet Result |
|--------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1) Using custom or runtime/default profile when container runtime does not support seccomp. | Pod created | The outcome is container runtime dependent. In this scenario containers may 1) fail to start or 2) run normally without having its policies enforced. |
| 2) Using custom or runtime/default profile that restricts syscalls a container is trying to make. | Pod created | The outcome is workdload and seccomp dependent. In this scenario containers may 1) fail to start, 2) misbehave or 3) log violations on syslog. |
| 3) Using custom profile that relies on unsupported or invalid seccomp actions (i.e. SCPM_ACT_LOG in versions earlier than 4.14 Linux kernel). | Pod created | Containers fail to start |

> | 4) Using custom profile that does not exist on node. | Pod created | Containers fail to start |

Author: Scenarios 3 and 4 are retryable errors. I added a bit more context to clarify that.

| 5) Using a non supported runtime profile (i.e. runtime/default-audit). | Pod **not** created. | N/A |
| 6) Using localhost profile with invalid name (i.e. "@profilename", "../../../../etc/passwd") | Pod **not** created. | N/A |

> The only change from the existing seccomp implementation is the scenario 6, as the new localhost 

Author: Removed that specific example and left the other, namely: `@profilename`.

| 3) Using custom profile that relies on unsupported or invalid seccomp actions (i.e. `SCPM_ACT_LOG` in versions earlier than 4.14 Linux kernel). | Pod created | Containers fail to start. Retry respecting RestartPolicy and back-off delay. |
| 4) Using custom profile that does not exist on the node's disk. | Pod created | Containers fail to start. Retry respecting RestartPolicy and back-off delay. |
| 5) Using a non supported runtime profile (i.e. `runtime/default-audit`). | Pod **not** created. | N/A |
| 6) Using localhost profile with invalid name (i.e. "/etc/profilename") | Pod **not** created. | N/A |

Scenario 2 is the expected behavior of using seccomp and it is included here for completeness.

Scenario 6 represents the case of failing the existing validation, which is defined at [Pod API](#pod-api).

### Seccomp root path configuration

The existing kubelet (alpha) flag `--seccomp-profile-root` allows for seccomp root path configuration.
This flag will be marked as deprecated as of v1.19, and will be removed on v1.23.
The seccomp root path will then be derived from the kubelet root path, which is defined by `--root-dir`.

> 

Author: @derekwaynecarr @liggitt @tallclair this is the new paragraph on '--seccomp-profile-root' being deprecated.

Reviewer 3: nit: note that the default value for the `--seccomp-profile-root` is `<root-dir>/seccomp`. So the proposal is to make the default behavior the only behavior.

Author: Added that information to the same section.

Reviewer 2: I am happy with that.

## Design Details

### Failure and Fallback Strategy

There are different scenarios in which applying seccomp may fail, below are the ones we mapped 
and their outcome once this KEP is implemented:

| Scenario | API Server Result | Kubelet Result |
|--------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1) Using custom or `runtime/default` profile when container runtime does not support seccomp. | Pod created | The outcome is container runtime dependent. In this scenario containers may 1) fail to start or 2) run normally without having its policies enforced. |

> | 2) Using custom or `runtime/default` profile that restricts syscalls a container is trying to make. | Pod created | The outcome is workload and seccomp dependent. In this scenario containers may 1) fail to start, 2) misbehave or 3) log violations. |

Reviewer: which log would the violations appear in (container, kubelet, cri, other...)?

Author: Seccomp is enforced at kernel level, so the violations will end-up on the kernel logs. I will amend the text to clarify that.

> | 3) Using custom profile that relies on unsupported or invalid seccomp actions (i.e. `SCPM_ACT_LOG` in versions earlier than 4.14 Linux kernel). | Pod created | Containers fail to start. Retry respecting RestartPolicy and back-off delay. |

Reviewer: Are these failures visible in the container log? In events logged by the kubelet?

will be added when a pod is created with a seccomp annotation:

```
warning.kubernetes.io/seccomp: "Seccomp set through annotations. Support will be dropped in v1.23"
```

> Note this will be reviewed during implementation to be aligned with the new 

Reviewer: nit: this link won't work, I think it needs to be `/keps/sig-api-machinery/1693-warnings`

Author: Done

will be added when a pod is created with a seccomp annotation:

> 

Reviewer: > If _only_ seccomp annotations are specified, copy the values into the corresponding fields.
> This ensures that existing applications continue to enforce seccomp, and prevents the kubelet from
> needing to resolve annotations & fields.

It's unclear from this whether 1.19 kubelets will use annotations or pod fields. Because the annotation -> field copy is only done at pod creation time, and a pod scheduled against a 1.19 kubelet could have been created or updated against a 1.18 API server without the seccomp field, if 1.19 kubelets only look at pod fields, they could miss seccomp annotations that previously worked.

Author: I added a new section around this.

migrated, the same warning annotation will be added to the controller as for pods:

```
warning.kubernetes.io/seccomp: "Seccomp set through annotations. Support will be dropped in v1.23"
```

#### docker/default

The runtime profile `docker/default` was deprecated as of Kubernetes 1.11. However, the API server 
will still support this profile type when migrating existing seccomp annotations. 

An additional warning annotation will be added when a pod is created using the `docker/default` profile:
```
warning.kubernetes.io/seccomp: "Seccomp profile docker/default is deprecated. Support will be dropped in v1.23"
```

#### Runtime Profiles 

The API Server will continue to reject annotations with runtime profiles different than `runtime/default`, 
to maintain the existing behavior. 

Violations would lead to the error message:
```
Invalid value: "runtime/profile-name": must be a valid seccomp profile
```

#### Localhost Profile Validation

The API Server will start to reject annotations with localhost profiles which do not comply with the 

> new validation requirements defined in [Pod API](#pod-api). 

Reviewer 3: This is tightening validation, which is generally problematic. See https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/64841

I think this is easier since the new field will be immutable. I think we can apply the tightened validation on create, and ignore the validation on update.
/cc @liggitt

Author: Updated based on recommendations. Thank you for adding the context.

migrated, the same warning annotation will be added to the controller as for pods:

```
warning.kubernetes.io/seccomp: "Seccomp set through annotations. Support will be dropped in v1.23"
```

#### Runtime Profiles 

The API Server will continue to reject annotations with runtime profiles different than `runtime/default`, 
to maintain the existing behavior. 

Violations would lead to the error message:
```
Invalid value: "runtime/profile-name": must be a valid seccomp profile
```

#### Localhost Profile Validation

This KEP adds tighter validation requirements for localhost profile names - defined in [Pod API](#pod-api).
The validation will only be applied on create using the new field, and will be ignored on updates.

> Validation will always be ignored when migrating from the annotation.

Reviewer: > Validation will always be ignored when migrating from the annotation.

How do we plan to determine when localhost profile names should use the current validation? The annotation->field or field->annotation copy is done prior to validation, so by the time validation is run, there is no indication which was the original, and the data in the field/annotation is indistinguishable from data specified by the user.

What was the purpose behind the stricter validation on the field?

migrated, the same warning annotation will be added to the controller as for pods:

```

> warning.kubernetes.io/seccomp: "Seccomp set through annotations. Support will be dropped in v1.23"

Reviewer: This is a bit unusual... I'm not sure we want to annotate like this. There's not a great central place to sweep all workload objects that contain pod templates to get them to mutate this correctly.

* Would we warn if a workload object had both the annotation and the seccomp field set?
* If an update dropped the seccomp annotation, would we clear the warning?
* Would tying this to an [actual warning](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-api-machinery/1693-warnings) make more sense once that mechanism is available in 1.19?

Author: That is reasonable. I have added a reference to the warning mechanism. 

Given that today is KEP freeze, and this is the only open point, I wonder whether it would be OK to leave as is (with the reference) and I will follow up with a new PR with the details around the warning?

Reviewer: Reword this to commit to avoid committing to a specific warning method. You can mention possible mechanisms like a metric, an audit annotation, an annotation on the object, an event, or a warning as described in KEP 1693

Author: Added reference to the different mechanisms and removed the previous example.

Kubernetes are observable, scalable and supportable, can be safely operated in
production environments, and can be disabled or rolled back in the event they
cause increased failures in production. See more in the PRR KEP at
https://git.k8s.io/enhancements/keps/sig-architecture/20190731-production-readiness-review-process.md

Production readiness review questionnaire must be completed for features in
v1.19 or later, but is non-blocking at this time. That is, approval is not
required in order to be in the release.

In some cases, the questions below should also have answers in `kep.yaml`. This
is to enable automation to verify the presence of the review, and reduce review
burden and latency.

The KEP must have a approver from the
[`prod-readiness-approvers`](http://git.k8s.io/enhancements/OWNERS_ALIASES)
team. Please reach out on the
[#prod-readiness](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CPNHUMN74) channel if
you need any help or guidance.

-->

### Feature enablement and rollback

_This section must be completed when targeting alpha to a release._

* **How can this feature be enabled / disabled in a live cluster?**
  

>   This feature was implemented prior to the concept of feature gates were adopted 
>   within Kubernetes. This KEP is simply "cleaning up" the API to make it GA.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  This feature was implemented prior to the concept of feature gates, is already enabled in live clusters and cannot be disabled. This KEP is simply "cleaning up" the API to make it GA.
```

* **Can the feature be disabled once it has been enabled (i.e. can we rollback
  the enablement)?**
  Also set `rollback-supported` to `true` or `false` in `kep.yaml`.
  Describe the consequences on existing workloads (e.g. if this is runtime

>   feature, can it break the existing applications?).

Reviewer 3: nit: delete this.

>   This feature has no `rollback support`. The impact on existing workloads is defined 

Reviewer 3: nit
```suggestion
  This feature has no rollback support. The impact on existing workloads is defined 
```

>   under [Version Skew Strategy](#version-skew-strategy).

Reviewer 3: I would clarify that the feature (seccomp) cannot be rolled back, but the API supports rollback of the kubernetes apiserver as described in the version skew strategy.

Author: I made some changes to it, please check whether it is clear enough.

  existing annotations or the new fields introduced by this KEP. 

* **What specific metrics should inform a rollback?**

  N/A - the feature is already enabled by default since Kubernetes 1.3.

* **Were upgrade and rollback tested? Was upgrade->downgrade->upgrade path tested?**
  Describe manual testing that was done and the outcomes.
  Longer term, we may want to require automated upgrade/rollback tests, but we
  are missing a bunch of machinery and tooling and do that now.

  Automated tests will cover the scenarios with and without the changes proposed 
  on this KEP. As defined under [Version Skew Strategy](#version-skew-strategy),
  we are assuming the cluster may have kubelets with older versions (without 
  this KEP' changes), therefore this will be covered as part of the new tests.

### Monitoring requirements

_This section must be completed when targeting beta graduation to a release._

* **How can an operator determine if the feature is in use by workloads?**
  Ideally, this should be a metrics. Operations against Kubernetes API (e.g.
  checking if there are objects with field X set) may be last resort. Avoid
  logs or events for this purpose.

>   The feature is built into the kubelet and api server components. No metric is

Author: @tallclair do you think it may be useful to have metrics around seccomp usage (i.e. # pods per profile type)? This could potentially help cluster admins to understand seccomp gap/cover. 

But feels like something that could be explored on seccomp-operator instead.

Reviewer 3: Agreed. Metrics for pod feature usage or usually recorded at the control-plane level rather than by the kubelet.

  of the kubernetes apiserver as described in the [Version Skew Strategy](#version-skew-strategy).

* **What happens if we reenable the feature if it was previously rolled back?**
  
  N/A - the feature is already enabled by default since Kubernetes 1.3.

* **Are there any tests for feature enablement/disablement?**
  The e2e framework does not currently support enabling and disabling feature
  gates. However, unit tests in each component dealing with managing data created
  with and without the feature are necessary. At the very least, think about
  conversion tests if API types are being modified.

  N/A - the feature is already enabled by default since Kubernetes 1.3.

### Rollout, Upgrade and Rollback Planning

_This section must be completed when targeting beta graduation to a release._

* **How can a rollout fail? Can it impact already running workloads?**
  Try to be as paranoid as possible - e.g. what if some components will restart
  in the middle of rollout?

  The [Version Skew Strategy](#version-skew-strategy) section covers this point.
  Running workloads should have no impact as the Kubelet will support either the 

>   existing annotations or the new fields introduced by this KEP. 

Reviewer: I'd like clarification on the question at https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/1747#discussion_r427406060 for this scenario:

1. A pod with seccomp annotations is created against a 1.18 API server (so no seccomp field is populated) and remains pending
2. The API server is upgraded to 1.19
3. The nodes are upgraded to 1.19
4. The pending pod is scheduled to a 1.19 node
5. Does the 1.19 kubelet honor the seccomp annotation?

Author: Yes, the kubelet will continue to honor seccomp annotations until their support is removed later down the line. Until then, the kubelet will accept pods with any of the settings below:

- Seccomp annotations.
- Seccomp annotations and seccomp fields: provided they have the same value.
- Seccomp fields.

Reviewer: It wasn't clear to me that the kubelet also would pay attention to both. This doc should describe the order in which the kubelet looks at those to determine the seccomp profile for a container, e.g.:

1. container-specific field
2. container-specific annotation
3. pod-wide field
4. pod-wide annotation

I'm not sure what I would expect the kubelet to do if the field and annotation both exist and disagree. My first instinct would be for the kubelet to use a precedence order and take the first one it found, rather than fail. The only way I can see for the field and annotation to both exist and be different is if the pod's annotation was updated after creation... I would have expected the kubelet to use the field in that case, not fail on the diff.

Author: Added a section to cover this points too.

* **What specific metrics should inform a rollback?**

  N/A - the feature is already enabled by default since Kubernetes 1.3.

* **Were upgrade and rollback tested? Was upgrade->downgrade->upgrade path tested?**
  Describe manual testing that was done and the outcomes.
  Longer term, we may want to require automated upgrade/rollback tests, but we
  are missing a bunch of machinery and tooling and do that now.

  Automated tests will cover the scenarios with and without the changes proposed 

>   on this KEP. As defined under [Version Skew Strategy](#version-skew-strategy),

Reviewer: is that accurate? do we have automated upgrade/downgrade tests that exercise seccomp?

Author: As part of this KEP's implementation we want to create those automated tests, to ensure we are not breaking backwards compatibility until the annotations support is removed - in/after v1.23.

// All values are optional, and an unspecified field excludes all profiles of
// that type from the set.
type SeccompProfileSet struct {
    // The allowed seccomp profile types.
    // +optional
    Types []SeccompProfileType
    // The allowed localhostProfiles. Values may end in '*' to include all
    // localhostProfiles with a prefix.
    // +optional
    LocalhostProfiles []string
}
```

#### PodSecurityPolicy Creation

Unlike with pods, PodSecurityPolicy seccomp annotations and fields are _not_ synced.

If only seccomp annotations or fields are specified, no action is necessary. The set value is used
when applying the PodSecurityPolicy.

If both seccomp annotations _and_ fields are specified, the values MUST match. This will be enforced
in API validation.

#### PodSecurityPolicy Update

PodSecurityPolicy seccomp fields are mutable. On an update, the same rules are applied as for
creation, ignoring the old values.

If only seccomp annotations or fields are specified in the updated PSP, no action is necessary, and
the specified values are used.

If both seccomp annotations _and_ fields are specified in the updated PSP, the values MUST match.

> #### PodSecurityPolicy Enforcement

Reviewer 3: This section should stay (it's a requirement, not an alternative).

Reviewer: Oops, good catch

Author: Good one - I have just reverted that.

## Alternatives

### Localhost profiles

> The localhost feature currently depends on an alpha Kubelet flag. We could therefore label the

Reviewer: would the alpha `seccomp-profile-root` kubelet flag no longer be considered alpha?

Reviewer 3: IMO we should deprecate this flag, and use the same approach as various other local plugins - configurable root directory, with a fixed subdirectory. See https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/kubelet/config/defaults.go and https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/kubelet/kubelet_getters.go#L88

Reviewer 2: i would like this clarified as well.

the kubelet uses this to build a path like `localhost/<some-dir>/<name>` when passing the seccompfile path down to sandbox creation flows.

Reviewer: Removing unnecessary degrees of freedom is good, so if stemming off of the kubelet `--root-dir` seems reasonable to sig-node, I'm all for deprecating the current flag and dropping it after a release.

Author: Made the change to deprecate on v1.19 and remove on v1.23 - the same version that will drop support for annotations.

Reviewer: ^ @derekwaynecarr to ack
